---
layout: post
title: I Don't Know How I Fall Asleep
categories: post misc
---

I don't know how I fall asleep every night. I simply don't know. The process of falling asleep executes automatically, without my active control. Even though *going to sleep* is usually done actively, *falling asleep* is always a passive action (probably with exception of *lucid dreams*, something that I have never tried). When I lie in bed and when I'm about to fall asleep — What is going to happen? What kind of strange things will I experience? How will my perspective switch from the reality into the dream world, and how will my consciousness transform into a form of unconsciousness? What will happen at that moment? I can't tell. But I do *experience* it every night. I can't tell, because I *don't remember*. The memory of that part is always "removed", or it simply doesn't get recorded. And as I woke up, I don't remember what happened at the moment where I fell asleep. It's such a mystery. When I'm attempting to focus on the process of falling asleep, I get a feeling of fear. A fear of unknown, because I have no idea *how to* fall asleep; and a fear of powerlessness, as if something would take control of my body and kick my consciousness out. It's like feeling the death. Actually it *is* death, but only a temporal one. *I fear falling asleep consciously*. But still, from the fact that I woke up I can deduce that I managed to fall asleep last night. And I don't remember at all what happened there. Perhaps I *struggled*, in order to prevent my body from losing control, and that struggle might happen every night. Or there is no struggle at all. I can't tell anything. The unrecorded memory of falling asleep is like the content in a well, which is covered by an extremely heavy lid that I'm unable to move away.
