---
layout: post
title: "Artificial Intelligence: The Worst Event?"
categories: post misc
---
This blog entry comes at the request of a task from my English lesson at school. The task:

> Physicist Stephen Hawking once said that the growing popularity of Artificial Intelligence (AI) could be the "worst event in the history of our civilization".<br>You are working on a science project called "Our Future" and are asked to write a blog entry for the project website, commenting on Hawking's statement.

---

The science project *Our Future* from us does not only focus on the technological conditions of futural developments, attention is also paid to their philisophical evaluation. One important and hot topic is artificial intelligence (AI), which leads to bunches of discussions. The well known physicist Stephen Hawking claims that AI could be the "worst event in the history of our civilization", on which we certainly agree.

Without doubt, AI is one of the greatest technological inventions of human being. Web search, interaction between devices and humen via natural langauge, self-driving cars, AI art, analysis in strategy games, and everything; these are all the amazing features AI has brought to us that other technologies can not achieve. The benefits of using AI, in all kind of fields, are obvious. But parallely, AI has its ill sides.

First of all, AI is not perfect. Unlike the common algorithms which consist of deterministic steps, AI usually doesn't find the way out directly. Generally, they are developed by training, mainly based on collected data, and by trials and error fixes. This progress is like the natural evolution of a species. In essence, AI has no idea why it should make a certain decision in some context. It only gets used to the data we feed to it. Thus, AI doesn't always give precise results and can give distorted advices. This will become especially serious if the given data is corrupted, or not complete enough. That's why AI is not always trustable. Even if an AI service is well trained, there're edge cases and exceptions. In some cases, mistakes made by AI might will be fatal, for example when AI is driving cars on the street.

Secondly, humen can easily abuse the power of AI, and, because of the powerfulness, humen have to sometimes compete against their invention. The well developed AI ChatGPT is mighty enough to do all kind of tasks, as elegantly as humen, or even better. It is observed that students tend to use ChatGPT to complete some of their school works. That means they give up thinking and writing on their own, which will damage their own brain development if they keep doing so. Nowadays AI is also able to generate paintings that can be barely distinguished from those created by humen. In this way, not only the human jobs are getting threatened, the authenticity of some paid artworks will also be placed in question.

Thirdly, an AI is never a human. No matter how good AI can imitate the way a human talks, everyone knows that he's not talking to people with flesh and blood, but to algorithms and data. The unreality of AI has to stay as one of its illnesses. Communications with AI could be fun and useful, but there is no connection between one soul and another. An AI can keep learning and evolving, but it is never able to escape its own framework. Between AI and us is an insuperable distance. As the famous quote from the film *Solaris* by Andrei Tarkovsky says, "man needs man."

Let's now look again at Hawking's assumption:

> Unless we learn how to prepare for, and avoid, the potential risks, AI could be the worst event in the history of our civilization. It brings dangers, like powerful autonomous weapons, or new ways for the few to oppress the many. It could bring great disruption to our economy.

Like what he points out, we have to keep in mind the potential risks of AI. AI is a tool, or probably a weapon. Only when we know the proper way to handle this weapon, including to recognize the risks and to get ready for them, we can prevent AI from becoming "the worst event".

(This blog entry is *not* written using an AI.)
