---
layout: carbon
title: Zermelo-Fraenkel Set Theory
updated: 2026-04-19
---

> {{ "ZF#AX-EX:Axiom of Existence" | cod }}
>
> $$ \exists X : X = X. $$

---

> {{ "ZF#AX-EXT:Axiom of Extensionality" | cod }}
>
> For any $X$ and $Y$,
>
> $$ \forall x : x\in X\lrimp x\in Y \enspace\rimp\enspace X=Y. $$

---

> {{ "ZF#AX-EMP:Axiom of Empty Set" | cod }}
>
> There exists a set $X$ such that
>
> $$ \forall x : x\notin X. $$

> {{ "ZF#DEF-EMP:Empty Set" | cod }}
>
> By [Axiom of Extensionality](#AX-EXT), the set $X$ above is unique. We call it the **empty set**,
>
> $$ \varnothing. $$

---

> {{ "ZF#AX-SEP:Separation Schema" | cod }}
>
> Let $X$ be a set and $\varphi(x,p)$ be a formula with free variables among $x$ and $p$. For any $p$, there exists a set $Y$ such that
> 
> $$ \forall x :\enspace x\in Y \enspace\lrimp\enspace x\in X\land\varphi(x,p). $$
>
> In other words, a subclass of a set is always a set.

> {{ "ZF#DEF-BLD:Set-Builder Notation" | cod }}
>
> By [Axiom of Extensionality](#AX-EXT), the set $Y$ above is unique. We write
>
> $$ Y = \{x\in X : \varphi(x,p)\}. $$

---

> {{ "ZF#AX-REP:Replacement Schema" | cod }}
>
> Let $X$ be a set and $\varphi(x,y,p)$ be a formula with free variables among $x$, $y$ and $p$, such that
> 
> $$ \forall x,y,z :\enspace \varphi(x,y)\land\varphi(x,z) \enspace\rimp\enspace y=z. $$
> 
> Then, for any $p$, there exists a set $Y$ such that
> 
> $$ \forall y :\enspace y\in Y \enspace\lrimp\enspace \exists x:x\in X\land\varphi(x,y,p). $$
>
> In other words, if a class $F$ is a function and $X$ is a set, then $F[X]$ is always a set.

---

> {{ "ZF#AX-PAIR:Axiom of Pairing" | cod }}
>
> For any $a$ and $b$ there exists a set $X$ such that
>
> $$ \forall x :\enspace x\in X \enspace\lrimp\enspace x=a\lor x=b. $$

> {{ "ZF#DEF-PAIR:Pair" | cod }}
>
> By [Axiom of Extensionality](#AX-EXT), the set $X$ above is unique. We call it the **pair** of $a$ and $b$,
>
> $$ \{a,b\}. $$

> {{ "ZF#DEF-SING:Singleton" | cod }}
>
> The **singleton** $\\{a\\}$ is the set $\\{a,a\\}$.

---

> {{ "ZF#AX-U:Axiom of Union" | cod }}
>
> For any $X$ there exists a set $Y$ such that
>
> $$ \forall y :\enspace y\in Y \enspace\lrimp\enspace \exists x:x\in X\land y\in x. $$

> {{ "ZF#DEF-U:Union" | cod }}
>
> By [Axiom of Extensionality](#AX-EXT), the set $Y$ above is unique. We call it the **union** of $X$,
>
> $$ \bigcup X. $$
>
> We write
>
> $$ A\cup B = \bigcup\{A,B\}. $$

---

> {{ "ZF#DEF-SUB:Subset" | cod }}
>
> $X$ is a **subset** of $Y$, written $X\subseteq Y$, if
>
> $$ \forall x :\enspace x\in X \enspace\rimp\enspace x\in Y. $$

> {{ "ZF#AX-P:Axiom of Power Set" | cod }}
>
> For any $X$ there exists a set $Y$ such that
>
> $$ \forall y :\enspace y\in Y \enspace\lrimp\enspace y\subseteq X. $$

> {{ "ZF#DEF-P:Power Set" | cod }}
>
> By [Axiom of Extensionality](#AX-EXT), the set $Y$ above is unique. We call it the **power set** of $X$,
>
> $$ \powerset(X). $$

---

> {{ "ZF#DEF-DJ:Disjoint Sets" | cod }}
>
> $X$ and $Y$ are called **disjoint** if
>
> $$ \forall x : \neg(x\in X\land x\in Y). $$

> {{ "ZF#DEF-NE:Non-Empty Set" | cod }}
>
> $X$ is called **non-empty** if
>
> $$ \exists x : x\in X. $$

> {{ "ZF#AX-REG:Axiom of Regularity" | cod }}
>
> Every non-empty set $X$ has an element $x$ that is disjoint from $X$.

> {{ "ZF#PROP-SLF" | cod }}
>
> No set is an element of itself.

**Proof.**{:.run-in}For any $X$, apply [Axiom of Regularity](#AX-REG) to $\\{X\\}$.<qed />

---

> {{ "ZF#AX-INF:Axiom of Infinity" | cod }}
>
> There exists a set $X$ such that $\varnothing\in X$ and
>
> $$ \forall x :\enspace x\in X \enspace\rimp\enspace x\cup\{x\}\in X. $$
>
> In other words, there exists an inductive set.

---

> {{ "ZF#REM-R" | cod }}
>
> {:.par-upper-roman}
> 1. Axiom of Infinity implies Axiom of Existence and Axiom of Empty Set.
> 2. Replacement Schema together with Axiom of Empty Set implies Separation Schema.
> 3. Replacement Schema together with Axiom of Existence implies Axiom of Empty Set.
>
> Therefore, $\ZF$ technically only needs the following axioms:
>
> - Replacement Schema.
> - Axiom of Extensionality.
> - Axiom of Pairing.
> - Axiom of Union.
> - Axiom of Power Set.
> - Axiom of Regularity.
> - Axiom of Infinity.

