---
layout: post
title: "Math Diary: Nov 2025"
categories: post math
updated: 2025-12-02
---
<span class="math-h">Proposition 1.</span>Suppose $M$, $N\subseteq\mathbb{R}$ have minima and maxima. If $\max(M\cap N)$ exists, then $\max(M\cap N)\leq\min\\{\max M,\max N\\}$.

<span class="math-h">Proof.</span>Since $\max(M\subseteq N)$ exists, let $x\in M\cap N$, then $x\in M$ and $x\in N$. So $x\leq\max M$ and $x\leq\max N$. Hence $\max(M\cap N)\leq\min\\{\max M,\max N\\}$. <span class="math-qed">$\square$</span>

Notice that $\max(M\cap N)$ does not always exist even if $M\cap N\neq\varnothing$: Take $M=[0,1]$ and $N=[0,1)\cup\\{2\\}$, then $M\cap N=[0,1)$, which has no maximum.

---

<span class="math-h">Proposition 2.</span>If $A_n$ is countable for every $n\in\mathbb{N}$, then $\bigcup_{n\in\mathbb{N}}A_n$ is countable.

<span class="math-h">Proof.</span>Since $A_n$ is countable for every $n\in\mathbb{N}$, there is a bijection $f_n:\mathbb{N}\to A_n$ for every $n$. Define

$$ h : \mathbb{N}\times\mathbb{N}\to\bigcup_{n\in\mathbb{N}}A_n,(n,m)\mapsto f_n(m). $$

Let $x\in\bigcup_{n\in\mathbb{N}}A_n$, then there is an $n\in\mathbb{N}$ such that $x\in A_n$. Since $f_n$ is bijective, there is an $m\in\mathbb{N}$ with $f_n(m)=x$. We have $x=f_n(m)=h(n,m)$, which shows $h$ is surjective. Since $\mathbb{N}\times\mathbb{N}$ is countable, $\bigcup_{n\in\mathbb{N}}A_n$ is countable. <span class="math-qed">$\square$</span>

---

<span class="math-h">Proposition 3.</span>For any set $X$ there is no surjection $X\to\mathcal{P}(X)$.

<span class="math-h">Proof.</span>Let $X$ be a set. Assume there is a surjection $f:X\to\mathcal{P}(X)$. Let

$$ A = \{x\in X : x\notin f(x)\}, $$

then $A\in\mathcal{P}(X)$, so there is an $a\in X$ such that $f(a)=A$. Now if $a\in f(a)$, then $a\notin f(a)$; if $a\notin f(a)$, then $a\in f(a)$. A contradiction. <span class="math-qed">$\square$</span>

---

<span class="math-h">Theorem 1.</span>The limit of a sequence does not change after its members are rearranged. That means, let $a:\mathbb{N}\to\mathbb{R}$ be a convergent sequence such that $\lim_{n\to\infty} a_n=a^\*$ and $f:\mathbb{N}\to\mathbb{N}$ be a bijection, then $\lim_{n\to\infty} a_{f(n)}=a^\*$.

We prove a stronger result:

<span class="math-h">Proposition 4.</span>Let $a:\mathbb{N}\to\mathbb{R}$ be a convergent sequence such that $\lim_{n\to\infty} a_n=a^\*$. Let $f:\mathbb{N}\to\mathbb{N}$ be a mapping such that

$$ \forall M\in\mathbb{N}\ \exists N\in\mathbb{N}\ \forall n\geq N:f(n)\geq M, $$

then $\lim_{n\to\infty}a_{f(n)}=a^\*$.

<span class="math-h">Proof.</span>Let $\varepsilon>0$. Since $a$ converges to $a^\*$, there is an $M\in\mathbb{N}$ such that $\lvert a_m-a^\*\rvert<\varepsilon$ for all $m\geq M$. By the condition, there is an $N\in\mathbb{N}$ such that $f(n)\geq M$ for all $n\geq N$, which follows $\lvert a_{f(n)}-a^*\rvert<\varepsilon$. This means $\lim_{n\to\infty} a_{f(n)}=a^\*$. <span class="math-qed">$\square$</span>

<span class="math-h">Lemma 1.</span>Let $f:\mathbb{N}\to\mathbb{N}$ be injective, then

$$ \forall M\in\mathbb{N}\ \exists N\in\mathbb{N}\ \forall n\geq N:f(n)\geq M. $$

<span class="math-h">Proof.</span>We show that $f$ can not be injective if this condition does not hold. Assume there is an $M\in\mathbb{N}$ such that $\forall N\in\mathbb{N}\ \exists n\geq N : f(n)<M$. Let $A=\\{n\in\mathbb{N}:f(n)<M\\}$. By assumption, for every $n\in A$ there is an $n'\geq n+1$ such that $f(n')<M$, which means $n'\in A$. So $A$ is infinite. However, the image $f[A]$ is finite, since it is bounded by $M$ from above. A contradiction. <span class="math-qed">$\square$</span>

