---
layout: post
title: Dreams Dec. 2020
categories: post yume
ignore_date: true
---
## Dec. 19, 2020

I needed to write an exam at N School (probably a final). I went with a classmate. We firstly arrived at a dark house that looked like a shop. Bread on sale. A cash bar next to the entrance, two waiters behind. We sauntered in this space. I couldn't find my classmate. I realized it was not the place where the exam was supposed to be written. I walked out and went left. I arrived at N School and saw some students as expected. A river splitted us. In front of me an extremely narrow, shaking "bridge" that only consisted of one single rope. I didn't go that way since I was afraid. I went left and found a normal bridge, which was quite winding, and many children were walking on it. I kept thinking about the four different conditionals of English. When I arrived at the exam room, the exam hadn't started yet. A screen in the front was displaying some names. I noticed the last name of that classmate on the screen. Below his name there was a name called "`dim rec.` 1". After a short while the screen showed that the staff closed the software and the operating system got exposed. I took out my phone and was about to take a photo.

## Dec. 21, 2020

### I

Inside some 3D game. An interface for configurating the "mech". The head's default style was Nezha. For the "hands" there was *drill* as an option.

### II.1

`daytime` An upheaval took place on a planet (either Jupiter or Saturn). The sky looked anormal, e.g. turbulences/clouds were transforming rapidly in a magical way. I went to Dad's bedroom for an astro observation. Dad stood next to me. I "took out" a Mac PC and put it on the table in front of the window. The monitor always fell off on the weak holder. I realized what I bought was MacBook, not a PC. I observed carefully my view and the image was not getting zoomed. I realized I was using my phone's camera. But the visual effect was wonderful. After my view fused into the photo I saw the black cosmic background and the white blinking interstellar matters. I saved the photo. I configured the computer and the telescope. I looked to the image displayed on the computer `quite clear, concrete software UI`. Galaxies over the darkness. I turned my viewpoint to that planet. A planet with rock-red surface and black cracks on it filled the whole view `feeling like microscope`. For a short while my viewpoint was outside the atmosphere, looking at the Earth - but still recognized as the result from the telescope in the bedroom - A lot of fragments, objects floating around the Earth. One of them attracted me, which was a machine with smooth surface that looked like a space station.

### II.2

The planet was getting larger and larger. I felt it was getting closer and closer to the Earth. The whole planet was no more red, but dark, sand yellow with gray, and owned a black spot like the one of Jupiter. Rapid transformations on its surface. The sky was getting darker and darker, transforming crazily, with big noises. I was somewhere outside. I met my aunt and her daughter. I assumed there were a *black hole* on the ground. I realized it was actually an illusion created by the purely black river and the bridge opening. Somewhere else. Someone was organizing an evacuation. Some interesting device was inset into the ground. He opened the ground in a certain way, and several square entrances got exposed. In front of each entrance there were some supplies (cash and clothes). People could take the supplies and slide through the entrance. There were a lot of people but only a few entrances. I did the same thing and I slided into the underground station.

> The sky and the universe in the dream were shockingly and amazingly beautiful.
