---
layout: post
title: Dreams Nov. 2020
categories: post yume
ignore_date: true
---
## Nov. 4, 2020

### I.1

My mother, my sister and I went shopping at a *bakery*. The German writing exam started. I assumed I had to write the homework given by my Chinese teacher. I wrote *What is Life* according to the chapter *Life* of manga *Girls' Last Tour*. After several paragraphs I realized this was a German exam. I stroked everything out. 4 seconds left `panic`.

### I.2

*Someone, close to the first-person perspective*, and *some unknown person* were discussing something in the *meeting room* on *the fifth floor* `dim rec.`.

### II

`third-person perspective` I caught a fever `painful``rather die`.

## Nov. 8, 2020

I carefully zipped the mosquito net, but there was a hole on each of the left and the right side.

## Nov. 13, 2020

I was looking outside the window in my bedroom. Some horrible insect was flying over here. I illuminated the insect using a red laser pointer. Red, black, dark sky. After a while the laser started to take effect. Burns started to appear on the insect, its body was growing and its structure was getting transformed. The term *induced mutation* came to my mind. After the insect flew into my room, its blood spilt all over the floor. When it hadn't left the room yet, I went outside and did something, then I went back to the room. I realized "heading out without cleaning everything up" was a mistake. As the consequence many other insects appeared on my bed. At first they were only tiny bugs that semmed to just come from the incubation, some of them looked like maggots that got shrunk several times. When I was observing the bed, some oddly shaped, varicolored insects appeared.

> In the dream, and after waking up, I didn't find those insects disgusting. The fuzzy images of those insects are kinda artistic.
