---
layout: post
title: Dreams Oct. 2020
categories: post yume
ignore_date: true
---
## Oct. 20, 2020

The Spring Festival is getting more and more boring.

## Oct. 22, 2020

I found three frozen, thumb-sized mini penguins. An exothermic kettle on the table. I attached one of the penguins onto kettle's surface and it comes to life. I prepared a plastic box in order to create an ecosystem for the penguins. I looked for many materials, including circuit components.

## Oct. 27, 2020

### I

I launched my computer. The *value* was displayed as over 60%, which was anormal, because it's anormal when the *value* is less than 100% - being 100% or above is called *normal*. I contacted one of my classmates and he said he encountered the same problem. I contacted W in chat. A scene with the *value* being about 60%. Some conjecture came to my mind - I vaguely felt this situation was caused by some certain factor. W together with his main unit appeared next to me, making big noise. After I fixed some component inside the main unit the noise were gone, and the *value* goes back to *normal*, which verified the conjecture. W went back to the chat.

### II

One of my classmates was giving a speech in the front of the classroom. As he obviously hadn't finished the speech yet - he hadn't gone through all the slides, whose previews were noticable on the left side of the screen - Another student came and covered up the first student, telling the audience that they didn't complete their presentation and apologized. The first student remained silent.

## Oct. 28, 2020

A stretch of water, feeling like mudflat. Scattered people in the water. The water surface reached just above the ankle. Gloomy sky. A man caught Koro-Sensei (from manga *Assassination Classroom*) from a well. Koro-Sensei was totally wet and his tentacles drooped. The man seemed very proud, while Koro-Sensei felt inferior and looked down.

Koro-Sensei in the distance, behind a couple of people. Koro-Sensei disappeared in a blink. *After all, he is really fast.*
