---
layout: post
title: Dreams Jan. 2021
categories: post yume
ignore_date: true
---
## Jan. 11, 2021

I was sorting stuff in the dormitory after school `dark``palm brown`. Other students were already finished and they were gone. I actually had to finish the Chemistry homework, and I planned at first to complete it after school, then give it to my Chemistry teacher. But I found sorting stuff more important so I didn't do the Chemistry homework. After spending a lot of time sorting things, even though I knew the time for correcting homework was already passed, I went to my Chemistry teacher. Teacher was giving a lesson to their class. Not in a classroom, but more like in a conference hall. High ceil, brightness. The screen in the front was quite huge and it almost covered the whole wall. A decent lesson must be like this, I thought. I sat at left-most of the last row. Seemingly teacher called "the auditor over there" and asked a question about pigeons. I wondered if I was called. After confirmation I asked what was asked about the pigeons. Teacher repeated the question: Is the biggest pigeon in the world black or white? And he gave the answer before I understood everything. Why was such a question in a Chemistry lesson? I said. Suddenly I noticed some classmate of me sat next to me, also as an auditor.

## Jan. 24, 2021

I was holding a weird-shaped real pistol. The second lesson was Art and it took place in a specific classroom. But I stayed in my classroom. After a while some others returned to classroom as well. Someone was annoying me by "hooking several pen nibs togehter". When some nib was not well fixed and it flew out and stabbed me, I couldn't bear anymore and left the classroom, cursing all my classmates. I decided to cut the four remaining lessons forenoon and walked into a corner in the school. A teacher. This teahcer accompanied me till noon and he told me the time was already 11:58. I went back. I passed by a lot of classrooms where all the classes were doing something uniformly, except our class. When I went back to my classroom, the time was 12:20, and the English teacher was handing out exam papers.
