---
layout: carbon
title: Magma
field: abstract-algebra
topic: groups
updated: 2026-03-16
---

> {{ "DEF-MAG:Magma" | codexify }}
>
> A **magma** is a structure $(M,\*)$ where $M$ is a set and $\*$ is a [binary operation](/codex/F) under which $M$ is [closed](/codex/OCL).
>
> {:.no-indent}
> - Usually we simply write $M$ to refer to the structure $(M,\*)$ ([abuse of notation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abuse_of_notation)).
>
> - Sometimes we write $ab$ instead of $a\*b$ ([juxtaposition](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Juxtaposition#Mathematics)).

---

> {{ "DEF-MAG-P" | codexify }}
>
> Let $(M,\*)$ be a magma. If $\*$ has a certain [property](/codex/OCL), e.g. associative, then we also say $M$ has this property.
>
> - In the context of algebra, *abelian* is a synonym for *commutative*.

> {{ "DEF-MAG-NEU:Neutral Element" | codexify }}
>
> Let $(M,\*)$ be a magma and $e\in M$.
>
> {:.no-indent}
> - $e$ is **left-neutral** if for all $x\in M$,
>
>   $$ ex = x. $$
>
> - $e$ is **right-neutral** if for all $x\in M$,
>
>   $$ xe = x. $$
>
> - $e$ is **neutral** if it is both left-neutral and right-neutral.
>
> - $M$ is **(left-/right-)unital** if it has a (left-/right-)neutral element.
>
> - $M$ is **uniquely (left-/right-)unital** if it has exactly one (left-/right-)neutral element.

> {{ "DEF-MAG-INV:Inverse" | codexify }}
>
> Let $M$ be a uniquely unital magma with neutral element $e$. Let $a$, $x\in M$.
>
> {:.no-indent}
> - $a$ is a **left-inverse** of $x$ if
>
>   $$ ax = e. $$
>
>   $x$ is **left-invertible** if it has a left-inverse.
>
> - $a$ is a **right-inverse** of $x$ if
>
>   $$ xa = e. $$
>
>   $x$ is **right-invertible** if it has a right-inverse.
>
> - $a$ is an **inverse** of $x$ if it is both a left-inverse and a right-inverse.
>
>   $x$ is **invertible** if it has an inverse.
>
> - $M$ is **(left-/right-)invertible** if every element of $M$ is (left-/right-)invertible.
>
> - $M$ is **uniquely (left-/right-)invertible** if every element of $M$ has exactly one (left-/right-)inverse.
>
> - If $M$ is uniquely invertible, we write $x^{-1}$ for the unique inverse of $x$.
>
> - The **invertible subset** of $M$ is
>
>   $$ \inv M = \{x\in M:\text{$x$ is invertible}\}. $$

---

> {{ "DEF-MAG-HOM:Magma Homomorphism" | codexify }}
>
> A **magma [homomorphism](/codex/MOR)** between two magmas $(M,\*)$ and $(N,\cdot)$ is a [function](/codex/F) $f:M\to N$ such that for all $a$, $b\in M$,
>
> $$ f(a*b) = f(a)\cdot f(b). $$

