---
layout: carbon
title: Introduction to Codex
updated: 2026-05-07
meta: true
---

**Codex** is my personal math journal.

## Structure

Codex pages are organized according to their **branches** (e.g. *Set Theory*, *Analysis*) and **topics** (e.g. *Functions*, *Series*). Each page discusses a specific **concept** within a topic (e.g. *Inverse Function* from the topic *Functions*).

Codex is mostly made of **entries**. They look like this:

> **[XXX#YYY-ZZZ.](/codex/intro#XXX)**{:#XXX}
>
> Blablablabla...

Each entry is either an *axiom*, a *definition*, a *proposition* or a *remark* (the entry's **type**), labeled in the following format:

```
<concept>#<type>(-<tag1>-<tag2>-<...>)
```

{:.no-indent}
- All labels contain only **uppercase letters**, (maybe) **numbers**, and **dashes**.

- `<concept>` is the abbreviation for the discussed concept on a page (e.g. *Subset* 🠆 **SUB**). It is also the code name of the page. The choice of this abbreviation is arbitrary.

- `<type>` is the abbreviation of the entry's type:

    - Axiom 🠆 **AX**
    - Definition 🠆 **DEF**
    - Proposition 🠆 **PROP**
    - Remark 🠆 **REM**

  In Codex, *proposition* is a generalized term for mathematical results (theorems, lemmas, etc.). Every result, regardless of its role or importance, is labeled as a proposition.

- `<tag1>-<tag2>-<...>` are optional tags used to further identify the entry. Usually only one tag is needed. Sometimes there is no tag at all, especially when the entry is the primary definition of a concept (e.g. [SUB#DEF](/codex/SUB#DEF) is the definition of subset). The choice of these tags is arbitrary.

### Why?

Why not use the conventional format ("Definition 3.12", "Theorem 5.4")?

The more familiar system, which labels entries based on the order of their occurrences, works well for *static* texts. However, Codex is *dynamic* by its nature, meaning that entries are expected to be added, removed and rearranged every now and then. With the conventional system, such changes would require a lot of renumbering.

Using individual, symbolic labels avoids the problem, as the order doesn't matter. Another advantage is that they are more descriptive, making them easier to remember ("Definition 5.1" vs. "DEF-SUB").

## Notes

{:.no-indent}
- By default, we work in $\ZF$ or $\ZFC$.

- \[$\limp\AC$\] means a result or a definition relies on $\AC$.

  \[$\rimp\AC$\] means a result implies $\AC$.

  \[$\lrimp\AC$\] means a result is equivalent to $\AC$.

