---
layout: carbon
title: Well-Order
updated: 2026-03-07
---

> {{ "DEF-WO:Well-Order" | codexify }}
>
> {:.no-indent}
> - A **well-order** on $W$ is a total order such that every non-empty subset of $W$ has a least element.
>
> - A **strict well-order** on $W$ is a strict total order such that every non-empty subset of $W$ has a least element.

---

> {{ "PROP-WO-S" | codexify }}
>
> $\preceq$ is a well-order if and only if $\prec$ is a strict well-order.

---

> {{ "PROP-WO-INC" | codexify }}
>
> If $(W,\preceq)$ is a well-ordered set and $f:W\to W$ is strictly increasing, then $x\preceq f(x)$ for every $x\in W$.

**Proof.**{:.run-in}Assume $A=\\{x\in W:f(x)\prec x\\}$ were non-empty. Let $z=\min A$, then

$$ f(f(z))\prec f(z)\prec z, $$

a contradiction.<qed />

> {{ "PROP-WO-AUT" | codexify }}
>
> The only automorphism on a well-ordered set is the identity function $\id_W$.

**Proof.**{:.run-in}Let $f$ be an automorphism on a well-ordered set $(W,\preceq)$. By [PROP-OH-MON](/codex/OH#PROP-OH-MON), both $f$ and $f^{-1}$ are strictly increasing. By [PROP-WO-INC](/codex/WO#PROP-WO-INC), $x\preceq f(x)$ and $x\preceq f^{-1}(x)$ for every $x\in W$, which follows that $x\preceq f(x)$ and $f(x)\preceq x$ for every $x\in W$.<qed />

> {{ "PROP-WO-ISO" | codexify }}
>
> If two well-ordered sets $W$ and $W'$ are isomorphic, then the isomorphism is unique.

**Proof.**{:.run-in}If $f$ and $g$ are isomorphisms from $W$ onto $W'$, $f\circ g^{-1}$ is an automorphism on $W$. By [PROP-WO-AUT](/codex/WO#PROP-WO-AUT), $f\circ g^{-1}=\id_W$.<qed />

---

> {{ "DEF-WO-SEG" | codexify }}
>
> Let $(W,\preceq)$ be a well-ordered set and $u\in W$. The **initial segment** of $W$ given by $u$ is
>
> $$ \{x\in W : x\prec u\}. $$
>
> $S\subseteq W$ is an initial segment of $W$, if $S$ is the initial segment of $W$ given by $u$ for some $u$.

> {{ "PROP-WO-SEG" | codexify }}
>
> No well-ordered set is isomorphic to an initial segment of itself.

**Proof.**{:.run-in}Let $(W,\preceq)$ be a well-ordered set and $f:W\to X$. For any $u\in W$, if

$$ X = \{x\in W:x\prec u\}, $$

then $f(u)\prec u$. By [PROP-WO-INC](/codex/WO#PROP-WO-INC), $f$ can not be an isomorphism.<qed />

> {{ "PROP-WO-C" | codexify }}
>
> If $W$ and $W'$ are well-ordered sets, then exactly one of the following cases holds:
>
> {:.par-upper-roman}
> 1. $W$ is isomorphic to $W'$.
> 2. $W$ is isomorphic to an initial segment of $W'$.
> 3. $W'$ is isomorphic to an initial segment of $W$.

