---
layout: post
title: Dreams Nov. 2020
categories: post yume
ignore_date: true
---
## Nov. 4, 2020

### I.1

My mother, my cousin and I went shopping at a *bakery*. The German writing exam started. I assumed I had to complete the essay task given by my Chinese teacher. Based on the chapter *Life* of manga [*Girls' Last Tour*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Girls%27_Last_Tour), I started writing an article titled *What is Life*. After a couple of paragraphs, I realized this was a German exam, so I scratched everything off. There were only 4 seconds left `panic`.

### I.2

*Someone, closely the first-person perspective*, and *someone, who is ████* were discussing something in the *meeting room* on *the fifth floor*.

### II

`third-person perspective` I caught a fever `pain``a living hell`.

## Nov. 8, 2020

I carefully zipped up the mosquito net. There was a gap on each of the left and right sides.

## Nov. 13, 2020

I was looking out from the window in my bedroom. A horrible insect was flying towards the bedroom. I used a red laser pointer to illuminate the insect `red, dark sky`. After a while the laser began to take effect. Burns spreaded on the insect, whose body began to grow and whose form was transforming. The term *induced mutation* came to my mind. After the insect flew into my room its blood spilt all over the floor. Before it left the room I went out, did something and returned. I realized "heading out without cleaning up everything" was a mistake. Consequently many other insects appeared on my bed. At first there were only tiny bugs, which seemed not incubated for long, some of them looked like shrunken maggots. Then appeared a group of varicolored insects in strange shapes.

> During the dream and after waking up, those insects didn't appear disgusting. Instead, the fuzzy images of those insects were artistic.
