---
layout: post
title: Dreams Oct. 2020
categories: post yume
ignore_date: true
---
## Oct. 20, 2020

The Spring Festival was getting more and more boring.

## Oct. 22, 2020

I found three frozen, thumb-sized penguins. A warm kettle was on the table. I attached one penguin onto the kettle's surface and it came to life. I planned to create an ecosystem for the penguins to live in. I looked for a lot of materials, including a plastic box and some circuit components.

## Oct. 27, 2020

### I

I launched my computer. The displayed *value* was slightly above 60%, which was anormal - the *value* had to be at least 100% to be called *normal*. I contacted one of my classmates and he reported the same problem. I contacted W in chat. The *value* was shown as about 60% as well. I conjectured this situation was caused by some certain factor. W and his PC's main unit appeared next to me, making loud noises. After I fixed some component of the main unit, the noises were gone and the *value* went back to *normal*. This verified the conjecture. W went back into the chat.

### II

One of my classmates was giving a speech in the front of the classroom. As he obviously hadn't finished everything yet - according to the previews on the left side of the screen, not all slides had been shown - Another classmate came, covered up the first speaker, telling the audience that they didn't complete their presentation and apologized. The first speaker kept silent.

## Oct. 28, 2020

`mudflat``gloomy sky``gray` Several people were scatteredly standing on the mudflat. The water level just reached above their ankles. A man captured [Koro-Sensei](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Assassination_Classroom) from a well. Koro-Sensei was totally wet, his tentacles drooping. The man looked very proud, Koro-Sensei was looking down with inferiority.

Koro-Sensei was standing in the distance, behind a couple of people. Koro-Sensei disappeared in a blink. *After all, he is really fast.*
