---
layout: carbon
title: Magma
updated: 2026-03-18
---

> {{ "DEF-MAG:Magma" | codexify }}
>
> A **magma** is a structure $(M,\*)$ where $M$ is a set and $\*$ is a binary operation under which $M$ is closed.
>
> {:.no-indent}
> - Usually we simply write $M$ to refer to the structure $(M,\*)$ ([abuse of notation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abuse_of_notation)).
>
> - If $\*$ denotes multiplication or a general abstract operation, we typically write $ab$ instead of $a\*b$ ([juxtaposition](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Juxtaposition#Mathematics)).

---

> {{ "DEF-MAG-P" | codexify }}
>
> Let $(M,\*)$ be a magma. If $\*$ has a certain property, e.g. associative, then we may also say $M$ has this property.
>
> - In the context of algebra, *abelian* is a synonym for *commutative*.

> {{ "DEF-MAG-NEU:Neutral Element" | codexify }}
>
> Let $M$ be a magma and $e\in M$.
>
> {:.no-indent}
> - $e$ is **left-neutral** if for all $a\in M$,
>
>   $$ ea = a. $$
>
> - $e$ is **right-neutral** if for all $a\in M$,
>
>   $$ ae = a. $$
>
> - $e$ is **neutral** if it is both left-neutral and right-neutral.
>
> - $M$ is **(left-/right-)unital** if it has a (left-/right-)neutral element.
>
> - $M$ is **uniquely (left-/right-)unital** if it has exactly one (left-/right-)neutral element.

> {{ "DEF-MAG-INV:Inverse" | codexify }}
>
> Let $M$ be a uniquely unital magma with neutral element $e$. Let $a$, $x\in M$.
>
> {:.no-indent}
> - $x$ is a **left-inverse** of $a$ if
>
>   $$ xa = e. $$
>
>   $a$ is **left-invertible** if it has a left-inverse.
>
> - $x$ is a **right-inverse** of $a$ if
>
>   $$ ax = e. $$
>
>   $a$ is **right-invertible** if it has a right-inverse.
>
> - $x$ is an **inverse** of $a$ if $x$ is both a left-inverse and a right-inverse of $a$.
>
>   $a$ is **invertible** if it has an inverse.
>
> - $M$ is **(left-/right-)invertible** if every element of $M$ is (left-/right-)invertible.
>
> - $M$ is **uniquely (left-/right-)invertible** if every element of $M$ has exactly one (left-/right-)inverse.
>
> - If $M$ is uniquely invertible, we generally write $a^{-1}$ for the unique inverse of $a$.
>
> - The **invertible subset** of $M$ is
>
>   $$ \inv M = \{a\in M:\text{$a$ is invertible}\}. $$

---

> {{ "DEF-MAG-HOM:Magma Homomorphism" | codexify }}
>
> A **magma homomorphism** between two magmas $(M,\*)$ and $(N,\diamond)$ is a function $f:M\to N$ such that for all $a$, $b\in M$,
>
> $$ f(a*b) = f(a)\diamond f(b). $$

