---
layout: carbon
title: Zermelo-Fraenkel Set Theory
field: set-theory
topic: sets
updated: 2026-03-19
---

> {{ "AX-ZF-EX:Axiom of Existence" | codexify }}
>
> $$ \exists X : X = X. $$

---

> {{ "AX-ZF-EXT:Axiom of Extensionality" | codexify }}
>
> For any $X$ and $Y$,
>
> $$ \forall x : x\in X\leftrightarrow x\in Y \enspace\rightarrow\enspace X=Y. $$

---

> {{ "AX-ZF-EMP:Axiom of Empty Set" | codexify }}
>
> There exists a set $X$ such that
>
> $$ \forall x : x\notin X. $$

> {{ "DEF-ZF-EMP:Empty Set" | codexify }}
>
> By Axiom of Extensionality, the set $X$ above is unique. We call it the **empty set**,
>
> $$ \varnothing. $$

---

> {{ "AX-ZF-SEP:Separation Schema / Specification Schema" | codexify }}
>
> Let $X$ be a set and $\varphi(x,p)$ be a formula with free variables among $x$ and $p$. For any $p$, there exists a set $Y$ such that
> 
> $$ \forall x :\enspace x\in Y \enspace\leftrightarrow\enspace x\in X\land\varphi(x,p). $$
>
> In other words, a [subclass](/codex/CLS) of a set is always a set.

> {{ "DEF-ZF-BLD:Set-Builder Notation" | codexify }}
>
> By Axiom of Extensionality, the set $Y$ above is unique. We write
>
> $$ Y = \{x\in X : \varphi(x,p)\}. $$

---

> {{ "AX-ZF-REP:Replacement Schema" | codexify }}
>
> Let $X$ be a set and $\varphi(x,y,p)$ be a formula with free variables among $x$, $y$ and $p$, such that
> 
> $$ \forall x,y,z :\enspace \varphi(x,y)\land\varphi(x,z) \enspace\rightarrow\enspace y=z. $$
> 
> Then, for any $p$, there exists a set $Y$ such that
> 
> $$ \forall y :\enspace y\in Y \enspace\leftrightarrow\enspace \exists x:x\in X\land\varphi(x,y,p). $$
>
> In other words, if a class $F$ is a [function](/codex/F) and $X$ is a set, then $F[X]$ is always a set.

---

> {{ "AX-ZF-PAIR:Axiom of Pairing" | codexify }}
>
> For any $a$ and $b$ there exists a set $X$ such that
>
> $$ \forall x :\enspace x\in X \enspace\leftrightarrow\enspace x=a\lor x=b. $$

> {{ "DEF-ZF-PAIR:Pair" | codexify }}
>
> By Axiom of Extensionality, the set $X$ above is unique. We call it the **pair** of $a$ and $b$,
>
> $$ \{a,b\}. $$

> {{ "DEF-ZF-SING:Singleton" | codexify }}
>
> The **singleton** $\\{a\\}$ is the set $\\{a,a\\}$.

---

> {{ "AX-ZF-U:Axiom of Union" | codexify }}
>
> For any $X$ there exists a set $Y$ such that
>
> $$ \forall y :\enspace y\in Y \enspace\leftrightarrow\enspace \exists x:x\in X\land y\in x. $$

> {{ "DEF-ZF-U:Union" | codexify }}
>
> By Axiom of Extensionality, the set $Y$ above is unique. We call it the **union** of $X$,
>
> $$ \bigcup X. $$
>
> We write
>
> $$ A\cup B = \bigcup\{A,B\}. $$

---

> {{ "DEF-ZF-SUB:Subset" | codexify }}
>
> {:.no-indent}
> - $X$ is a **subset** of $Y$, written $X\subseteq Y$, if
>
>   $$ \forall x :\enspace x\in X \enspace\rightarrow\enspace x\in Y. $$
> 
> - $X$ is a **proper subset** of $Y$, written $X\subset Y$, if $X\subseteq Y$ and $X\neq Y$.

> {{ "AX-ZF-P:Axiom of Power Set" | codexify }}
>
> For any $X$ there exists a set $Y$ such that
>
> $$ \forall y :\enspace y\in Y \enspace\leftrightarrow\enspace y\subseteq X. $$

> {{ "DEF-ZF-P:Power Set" | codexify }}
>
> By Axiom of Extensionality, the set $Y$ above is unique. We call it the **power set** of $X$,
>
> $$ \powerset(X). $$

---

> {{ "DEF-ZF-DJ:Disjoint Sets" | codexify }}
>
> $X$ and $Y$ are called **disjoint** if
>
> $$ \forall x : \neg(x\in X\land x\in Y). $$

> {{ "DEF-ZF-NE:Non-Empty Set" | codexify }}
>
> $X$ is called **non-empty** if
>
> $$ \exists x : x\in X. $$

> {{ "AX-ZF-REG:Axiom of Regularity / Axiom of Foundation" | codexify }}
>
> Every non-empty set $X$ has an element $x$ that is disjoint from $X$.

> {{ "PROP-ZF-SLF" | codexify }}
>
> No set is an element of itself.

**Proof.**{:.run-in}For any $X$, apply Axiom of Regularity to $\\{X\\}$.<qed />

---

> {{ "AX-ZF-INF:Axiom of Infinity" | codexify }}
>
> There exists a set $X$ such that $\varnothing\in X$ and
>
> $$ \forall x :\enspace x\in X \enspace\rightarrow\enspace x\cup\{x\}\in X. $$
>
> In other words, there exists an [inductive set](/codex/IND).

---

> {{ "REM-ZF" | codexify }}
>
> 1. Axiom of Infinity implies Axiom of Existence and Axiom of Empty Set.
> 2. Replacement Schema together with Axiom of Empty Set implies Separation Schema.
> 3. Replacement Schema together with Axiom of Existence implies Axiom of Empty Set.
>
> Therefore, $\ZF$ technically only needs the following axioms:
>
> - Replacement Schema.
> - Axiom of Extensionality.
> - Axiom of Pairing.
> - Axiom of Union.
> - Axiom of Power Set.
> - Axiom of Regularity.
> - Axiom of Infinity.
